3/29/26

*This work represents my first attempt at what one might call "semi-automatic writing", wherein I essentially wrote down the first thing that came to mind. I wrote this while cruising at 35,000 feet over the desert southwest on a flight from San Diego to New Orleans (stop in Dallas). In summary, this work reflects my thoughts and feelings as I gazed out the window and daydreamed about my unfamiliar destination. In particular, my attention was captured by the clouds, farms, and canyon-crawled desert landscape sprawled out below me.

Hazy hues of summer seeds sown early in the season
scatter hastily above fractal mountains
and beneath my tender feet.

Panels of plight deck sand-kissed plains
where rigid hands perform treacherous work,
afraid, afraid of the storm that might never come.

A blanched, billowing border bisects and maims the divided land,
with an arbitrary air of impatient whimsy at its heel.

My nose itches as it inches and knows not where it is bound,
but for a false human name which it had been given
out of spite for the valley it had tarnished.

Aching canyons open their wounds
to show me the veins and sinew
that keep its blood flowing,
confiding in me their superficial secrets.

I clock a map and read the time from a magnet,
a circuit, a demon of the digital age,
thumping with ceaseless information
but being tasked with very little.

The Earth opens her quarry-mouth wide
and offers her rich stone,
a haphazard gift
from a mother to her dying children.

A fall, to be sure, awaits me in Dallas,
but again I will sink to the lowly green skies,
their cottonwood hue trading moonlight for stardom.

And fall again I will,
to the wicked blue marshes of New Orleans,
where little awaits me but stories untold.

And as I stare at the silver strands
of cottonball whiskey, between tip-taps
and screen-age pitter patter,
I am reminded at once
of a moment that never came.

One at which life seemed like a marble on a hill,
vastly outworn by the twisted ides of tall grass
and gravity beneath its swirls
and see-through sheen.

Like a die spinning wildly in the air,
I sat there, momentarily at rest,
and yet moving decisively against my will.

Life, it seems, is not fooled by "could have" or "would have",
these dirty lies we tell ourselves to escape the droll;
Instead, the dictates of fate conspire
to constantly deprive us of the illusion we call being.

Like an anxious electron,
you may know where you are,
or you may know where you are going,
but never both.

Cast down your bucket and see for yourself,
lest your reddish eyes be blinded
by the tail lights of tomorrow.